README.md, before:

# GitHub Account Presentation Optimizer Template

A CLI-first GitHub Account Presentation Optimizer that analyzes all repositories in a GitHub account and scores how clearly they present themselves to humans, while also serving as an SEO-optimized template for developer-facing projects.

## What This Project Provides

This repository contains a **concrete product** and a **reusable template**:

- A **GitHub Account Presentation Optimizer** that:
  - Scans a GitHub account using a Personal Access Token (PAT)
  - Evaluates repo names, descriptions, topics, and READMEs
  - Produces structured, explainable presentation scores (and, later, suggestions)
- An **SEO-focused repository template** that demonstrates:
  - Clear README structure and metadata best practices
  - GitHub Actions workflows for lightweight checks
  - Topic taxonomy guidance for discoverability

## Who This Is For

- Developers who want their GitHub presence to read like a coherent portfolio
- Open-source maintainers who care how projects look to newcomers and sponsors
- Indie hackers and product builders using GitHub as a discovery surface
- Developer tooling authors who want a strong, SEO-aware repo template

## Quick Start (Using the Analyzer)

> Note: The analyzer implementation is evolving toward v0.1. The interface below describes the intended CLI shape.

1. Generate a GitHub Personal Access Token (PAT) with minimal read scopes
2. Export it in your shell: `export GITHUB_TOKEN=ghp_xxx` (or use `--token`)
3. Run the CLI:
   - `gh-visibility scan --user your-username --preset indie-hacker --output table`
4. Inspect the scores and explanations per repository
5. Manually apply any improvements you agree with

See `PRODUCT_INTENT.md` for the detailed product definition and `RULES.md` for hard scope constraints.

### Dashboard (optional)

A read-only web view is in `web/index.html`. Run the CLI with `--output json`, save the output to a file, then open the HTML file and paste the JSON to view scores and suggestions in the browser. No server or GitHub auth in the browser.

### Configuration (PAT-based auth)

- **Token**: Set `GITHUB_TOKEN` in your environment, or pass `--token ghp_xxx` to the CLI.
- **Scopes**: Use a Personal Access Token with minimal read scope:
  - For public repos only: no special scopes (or `public_repo` if needed).
  - For private repos: `repo` scope.
- **Install (development)**: From the repo root, run `pip install -e ".[dev]"` then `gh-visibility scan --user <username>`.

## Using This Repository as a Template

You can also use this repository purely as a **GitHub SEO-optimized template**:

1. Click **“Use this template”** on GitHub to create a new repository
2. Replace the analyzer-specific content with your own project details
3. Follow the README structure guidelines below for your own README
4. Update repository topics and description in GitHub settings
5. Customize `.github/workflows/` for your project’s CI/CD needs

For deeper guidance:

- See `TEMPLATE_USAGE.md` for step-by-step template usage
- See `TOPIC_TAXONOMY.md` for topic selection strategies

## README Structure Guidelines

### Required Sections

Your README should include these sections in order:

1. **H1 Title** - Repository name that matches search intent
2. **First Paragraph** - WHAT + WHO + PLATFORM (one sentence each)
3. **What This [Project] Provides** - Clear value proposition
4. **Who Should Use This** - Target audience
5. **Installation/Getting Started** - How to begin
6. **Usage/Examples** - Practical examples
7. **Configuration** - If applicable
8. **Contributing** - How others can help
9. **License** - Legal information

### SEO Best Practices

- **Repository name**: Use literal, searchable terms (e.g., `vscode-markdown-preview` not `md-preview`)
- **Description**: Include primary keywords in the first 160 characters
- **Topics**: Add 5-10 relevant topics from GitHub's taxonomy
- **Headings**: Use H1 for title, H2 for major sections, H3 for subsections
- **Code examples**: Include real, runnable examples
- **Links**: Link to related projects, documentation, and resources

## Project Philosophy & Scope

This project is intentionally **read-only and advisory-only**:

- It analyzes repository presentation, it does not mutate repositories by default
- It explains *why* something is scored a certain way
- It keeps humans in the loop for all actual changes

Core intent and guardrails are documented in:

- `PRODUCT_INTENT.md` — product intent, non-goals, and philosophy
- `RULES.md` — project rules, scope constraints, and contribution expectations

Any new feature should be checked against these documents before implementation.

## Repository Metadata

### GitHub Topics

Add topics that match your project's:
- **Technology stack** (e.g., `javascript`, `python`, `typescript`)
- **Use case** (e.g., `cli-tool`, `api-wrapper`, `vscode-extension`)
- **Domain** (e.g., `seo`, `developer-tools`, `automation`)
- **Platform** (e.g., `github-action`, `npm-package`, `wordpress-plugin`)

### Repository Description

Keep the description under 160 characters and include:
- Primary keyword
- What it does
- Target platform/ecosystem

Example: `A VS Code extension that provides enhanced Markdown preview with live reload and custom CSS support.`

## CI/CD Structure

The `.github/` directory includes:

- `workflows/` - GitHub Actions workflows for:
  - README structure validation (optional)
  - Metadata linting (optional)
  - Automated checks for best practices

### Workflow Templates

Workflows are provided as templates that you can enable or customize:

- `validate-readme.yml` - Checks README structure and required sections
- `lint-metadata.yml` - Validates repository topics and description

## Customization Guide

### For Plugin Authors

1. Add installation instructions specific to your platform
2. Include screenshots or demos
3. Document configuration options
4. Link to marketplace listings

### For Library Maintainers

1. Add API documentation links
2. Include code examples for common use cases
3. Document version compatibility
4. Link to changelog and migration guides

### For SaaS/Developer Tools

1. Add signup/onboarding links
2. Include pricing information (if applicable)
3. Document API endpoints
4. Link to status page and support

## Next Steps

- **Dogfood**: Run the CLI on your own GitHub account regularly. See [docs/dogfooding.md](docs/dogfooding.md).
- **v0.1 usage**: See [docs/v0.1.md](docs/v0.1.md) for sample output and usage.
- **Monetization**: Only after real usage signal; see [docs/dogfooding.md](docs/dogfooding.md#monetization-only-after-signal).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request with a clear description

## License

This template is provided under the MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Related Resources

- [GitHub's Guide to Repository Discovery](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-topics)
- [SEO Best Practices for Open Source Projects](https://opensource.guide/)
- [Writing Great Documentation](https://www.writethedocs.org/guide/)

---

**Note**: This template is designed to evolve. As GitHub introduces new features and SEO best practices emerge, this template will be updated to reflect current recommendations.

Commit message:

feat: standalone dashboard, Tauri config, better GitHub API errors
- Add web/standalone.html (client-side SPA, no backend)
- Add src-tauri/tauri.conf.json and icons/README.md for Tauri v2
- Add web/README.md (index vs standalone, Tauri usage)
- Link dashboard/Tauri docs from root README
- Surface GitHub API error message in standalone (e.g. Bad credentials)

README.md, after:

# GitHub Account Presentation Optimizer Template

A CLI-first GitHub Account Presentation Optimizer that analyzes all repositories in a GitHub account and scores how clearly they present themselves to humans, while also serving as an SEO-optimized template for developer-facing projects.

## What This Project Provides

This repository contains a **concrete product** and a **reusable template**:

- A **GitHub Account Presentation Optimizer** that:
  - Scans a GitHub account using a Personal Access Token (PAT)
  - Evaluates repo names, descriptions, topics, and READMEs
  - Produces structured, explainable presentation scores (and, later, suggestions)
- An **SEO-focused repository template** that demonstrates:
  - Clear README structure and metadata best practices
  - GitHub Actions workflows for lightweight checks
  - Topic taxonomy guidance for discoverability

## Who This Is For

- Developers who want their GitHub presence to read like a coherent portfolio
- Open-source maintainers who care how projects look to newcomers and sponsors
- Indie hackers and product builders using GitHub as a discovery surface
- Developer tooling authors who want a strong, SEO-aware repo template

## Quick Start (Using the Analyzer)

> Note: The analyzer implementation is evolving toward v0.1. The interface below describes the intended CLI shape.

1. Generate a GitHub Personal Access Token (PAT) with minimal read scopes
2. Export it in your shell: `export GITHUB_TOKEN=ghp_xxx` (or use `--token`)
3. Run the CLI:
   - `gh-visibility scan --user your-username --preset indie-hacker --output table`
4. Inspect the scores and explanations per repository
5. Manually apply any improvements you agree with

See `PRODUCT_INTENT.md` for the detailed product definition and `RULES.md` for hard scope constraints.

### Dashboard (optional)

A read-only web view is in `web/index.html`. Run the CLI with `--output json`, save the output to a file, then open the HTML file and paste the JSON to view scores and suggestions in the browser. No server or GitHub auth in the browser. For the standalone dashboard and Tauri build instructions, see [web/README.md](web/README.md).

### Configuration (PAT-based auth)

- **Token**: Set `GITHUB_TOKEN` in your environment, or pass `--token ghp_xxx` to the CLI.
- **Scopes**: Use a Personal Access Token with minimal read scope:
  - For public repos only: no special scopes (or `public_repo` if needed).
  - For private repos: `repo` scope.
- **Install (development)**: From the repo root, run `pip install -e ".[dev]"` then `gh-visibility scan --user <username>`.

## Using This Repository as a Template

You can also use this repository purely as a **GitHub SEO-optimized template**:

1. Click **“Use this template”** on GitHub to create a new repository
2. Replace the analyzer-specific content with your own project details
3. Follow the README structure guidelines below for your own README
4. Update repository topics and description in GitHub settings
5. Customize `.github/workflows/` for your project’s CI/CD needs

For deeper guidance:

- See `TEMPLATE_USAGE.md` for step-by-step template usage
- See `TOPIC_TAXONOMY.md` for topic selection strategies

## README Structure Guidelines

### Required Sections

Your README should include these sections in order:

1. **H1 Title** - Repository name that matches search intent
2. **First Paragraph** - WHAT + WHO + PLATFORM (one sentence each)
3. **What This [Project] Provides** - Clear value proposition
4. **Who Should Use This** - Target audience
5. **Installation/Getting Started** - How to begin
6. **Usage/Examples** - Practical examples
7. **Configuration** - If applicable
8. **Contributing** - How others can help
9. **License** - Legal information

### SEO Best Practices

- **Repository name**: Use literal, searchable terms (e.g., `vscode-markdown-preview` not `md-preview`)
- **Description**: Include primary keywords in the first 160 characters
- **Topics**: Add 5-10 relevant topics from GitHub's taxonomy
- **Headings**: Use H1 for title, H2 for major sections, H3 for subsections
- **Code examples**: Include real, runnable examples
- **Links**: Link to related projects, documentation, and resources

## Project Philosophy & Scope

This project is intentionally **read-only and advisory-only**:

- It analyzes repository presentation, it does not mutate repositories by default
- It explains *why* something is scored a certain way
- It keeps humans in the loop for all actual changes

Core intent and guardrails are documented in:

- `PRODUCT_INTENT.md` — product intent, non-goals, and philosophy
- `RULES.md` — project rules, scope constraints, and contribution expectations

Any new feature should be checked against these documents before implementation.

## Repository Metadata

### GitHub Topics

Add topics that match your project's:
- **Technology stack** (e.g., `javascript`, `python`, `typescript`)
- **Use case** (e.g., `cli-tool`, `api-wrapper`, `vscode-extension`)
- **Domain** (e.g., `seo`, `developer-tools`, `automation`)
- **Platform** (e.g., `github-action`, `npm-package`, `wordpress-plugin`)

### Repository Description

Keep the description under 160 characters and include:
- Primary keyword
- What it does
- Target platform/ecosystem

Example: `A VS Code extension that provides enhanced Markdown preview with live reload and custom CSS support.`

## CI/CD Structure

The `.github/` directory includes:

- `workflows/` - GitHub Actions workflows for:
  - README structure validation (optional)
  - Metadata linting (optional)
  - Automated checks for best practices

### Workflow Templates

Workflows are provided as templates that you can enable or customize:

- `validate-readme.yml` - Checks README structure and required sections
- `lint-metadata.yml` - Validates repository topics and description

## Customization Guide

### For Plugin Authors

1. Add installation instructions specific to your platform
2. Include screenshots or demos
3. Document configuration options
4. Link to marketplace listings

### For Library Maintainers

1. Add API documentation links
2. Include code examples for common use cases
3. Document version compatibility
4. Link to changelog and migration guides

### For SaaS/Developer Tools

1. Add signup/onboarding links
2. Include pricing information (if applicable)
3. Document API endpoints
4. Link to status page and support

## Next Steps

- **Dogfood**: Run the CLI on your own GitHub account regularly. See [docs/dogfooding.md](docs/dogfooding.md).
- **v0.1 usage**: See [docs/v0.1.md](docs/v0.1.md) for sample output and usage.
- **Monetization**: Only after real usage signal; see [docs/dogfooding.md](docs/dogfooding.md#monetization-only-after-signal).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request with a clear description

## License

This template is provided under the MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Related Resources

- [GitHub's Guide to Repository Discovery](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-topics)
- [SEO Best Practices for Open Source Projects](https://opensource.guide/)
- [Writing Great Documentation](https://www.writethedocs.org/guide/)

---

**Note**: This template is designed to evolve. As GitHub introduces new features and SEO best practices emerge, this template will be updated to reflect current recommendations.
